Serotonin is a chemical messenger nerve cells use to communicate.
Changing the levels of chemical messengers
helps control pain, pleasure, anxiety, sleep and emotional behaviors.
Serotonin passes from cell to cell
by binding to receptors on nearby cells to deliver messages.
Nerve cells control the amount of serotonin traveling between the cells.
Serotonin is recycled by the cells in a process called "reuptake."
Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors or SSRIs,
affect serotonin levels used to communicate between nerve cells
by preventing the cells from recycling serotonin
and allowing it more time to relay the message.
Changing the balance of serotonin in the brain
seems to help nerve cells send and receive
chemical messages which in turn boosts mood.